Add Remaining text (2 of 2) (#249)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript: content/04.discussion.md

## Discussion

> Through the OpenPBTA, we used an open, reproducible analysis framework within GitHub to bring together researchers and clinicians from across the globe to genomically characterize 1,253 pediatric brain tumors across 59 distinct histologies.

Author: updated to "We created the OpenPBTA to provide an open, reproducible analysis framework within GitHub and bring together researchers and clinicians from across the globe to genomically characterize 1,253 pediatric brain tumors across 59 distinct histologies."

> We created the OpenPBTA project to provide robust code and data resources to the pediatric oncology community, as well as attract interdisciplinary scientists to collaborate on new analyses in order to accelerate therapeutic translation for children with cancer, goals we are seeing play out in real-time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We created the OpenPBTA project to provide robust code and data resources to the pediatric oncology community, as well as to attract interdisciplinary scientists to collaborate on new analyses in order to accelerate therapeutic translation for children with cancer, goals we are seeing play out in real-time.
```

What do we think about "entice" vs "attract"?

Author: we can go with "entice"

We used available WGS, WXS, and RNA-Seq data to generate high-confidence consensus SNV and CNV calls, prioritize putative oncogenic fusions, and establish over 40 scalable modules to perform common downstream cancer genomics analyses, all of which have undergone rigorous scientific and analytical code review. 
We detected and showed expected frequencies of genomic lesions, mutational signatures, and aberrantly regulated signaling pathways across multiple pediatric brain tumor histologies.
Molecular subtyping information from pathology reports was largely not collected nor available for this cohort, and if available (e.g.: sparse medulloblastoma subtypes), it had to be manually curated from pathology reports and/or free text clinical data fields.
Furthermore, in the absence of DNA methylation data, rapid classification to derive molecular subtypes could not be performed.
Thus, to enable biological interrogation of specific tumor subtypes, we created RNA- and DNA-based subtyping modules aligned with WHO molecularly-defined diagnoses.

> We worked closely with pathologists and clinicians to build modules from which we determined a research-grade integrated diagnosis for 44% (1260/2840) of biospecimens as well as discovered incorrectly diagnosed or mis-identified samples in the OpenPBTA cohort. 

Reviewer: Noting this is a minor comment, does not need to be incorporated.

We harnessed RNA expression data for a number of analyses, including application of multiple previously validated classifiers.

> From 43/122 (35.2%) medulloblastoma tumors whose pathology reports contained subtype information, we accurately predicted subtypes using MM2S (90.7%) or medulloPackage (95.4%) [@doi:10.1186/s13029-016-0053-y; @doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1008263].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, from 43/122 (35.2%) medulloblastoma tumors whose pathology reports contained subtype information, we accurately predicted subtypes using MM2S (90.7%) or medulloPackage (95.4%) [@doi:10.1186/s13029-016-0053-y; @doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1008263].
```

> We used additional classifiers to determine whether tumors have dysfunctional _TP53_ [@doi:10.1016/j.celrep.2018.03.076] and their degree of telomerase activity from EXTEND scores [@doi:10.1038/s41467-020-20474-9].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used additional classifiers to determine whether tumors have dysfunctional _TP53_ [@doi:10.1016/j.celrep.2018.03.076] and their degree of telomerase activity from EXTEND scores [@doi:10.1038/s41467-020-20474-9].
```

Should we say "normalized" EXTEND? Not sure.

Author: I actually thought about leaving the term "EXTEND" out of the discussion to make it more readable, so I would suggest no.

Reviewer: Sounds good. This is more of a methods-y detail anyways.

> We found that hypermutant tumors universally display dysregulation of _TP53_ and that EXTEND scores are a robust surrogate measure for telomerase activity, as tumors with high scores have a significant adverse risk for overall survival. 

Reviewer: Single tense:

```suggestion
We found that hypermutant tumors universally displayed dysregulation of _TP53_ and that EXTEND scores were a robust surrogate measure for telomerase activity, such that tumors with high scores had a significant adverse risk for overall survival. 
```

Author: I think we need to keep this active - this is really a call to action to use this data clinically

Additionally, high _TP53_ scores are a significant negative prognostic indicator for overall survival for patients with certain tumor types, such as H3 K28-altered DMGs and ependymomas. 

> By assessing _TP53_ and telomerase activity prospectively from expression data, information previously only attainable with DNA sequencing and/or qPCR, we can quickly add oncogenic biomarker and prognostic knowledge to our existing biological understanding of these tumors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By assessing _TP53_ and telomerase activity prospectively from expression data, which is usually only attainable with DNA sequencing and/or qPCR, we incorporated oncogenic biomarker and prognostic knowledge that expanded our biological understanding of these tumors.
```

I'm not sure I followed this sentence. I tried to rephrase to follow it better, but I may or may not have got it right?

Author: yes, but kept active, as we want to relay that this is actively useful to do at diagnosis/time of biopsy
